Feature Selection 
=================

The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). 

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). 

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  
'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.

 
The selected variables in the new data set are listed below allong with their units: 
 
 
activity
subject
tbodyacc-mean()-x  - time units
tbodyacc-mean()-y  - time units
tbodyacc-mean()-z  - time units
tbodyacc-std()-x  - time units
tbodyacc-std()-y  - time units
tbodyacc-std()-z  - time units
tgravityacc-mean()-x  - time units
tgravityacc-mean()-y  - time units
tgravityacc-mean()-z  - time units
tgravityacc-std()-x  - time units
tgravityacc-std()-y  - time units
tgravityacc-std()-z  - time units
tbodyaccjerk-mean()-x  - time units
tbodyaccjerk-mean()-y  - time units
tbodyaccjerk-mean()-z  - time units
tbodyaccjerk-std()-x  - time units
tbodyaccjerk-std()-y  - time units
tbodyaccjerk-std()-z  - time units
tbodygyro-mean()-x  - time units
tbodygyro-mean()-y  - time units
tbodygyro-mean()-z  - time units
tbodygyro-std()-x  - time units
tbodygyro-std()-y  - time units
tbodygyro-std()-z  - time units
tbodygyrojerk-mean()-x  - time units
tbodygyrojerk-mean()-y  - time units
tbodygyrojerk-mean()-z  - time units
tbodygyrojerk-std()-x  - time units
tbodygyrojerk-std()-y  - time units
tbodygyrojerk-std()-z  - time units
tbodyaccmag-mean()  - time units
tbodyaccmag-std()  - time units
tgravityaccmag-mean()  - time units
tgravityaccmag-std()  - time units
tbodyaccjerkmag-mean()  - time units
tbodyaccjerkmag-std()  - time units
tbodygyromag-mean()  - time units
tbodygyromag-std()  - time units
tbodygyrojerkmag-mean()  - time units
tbodygyrojerkmag-std()  - time units
fbodyacc-mean()-x  - frequency
fbodyacc-mean()-y  - frequency
fbodyacc-mean()-z  - frequency
fbodyacc-std()-x  - frequency
fbodyacc-std()-y  - frequency
fbodyacc-std()-z  - frequency
fbodyacc-meanfreq()-x  - frequency
fbodyacc-meanfreq()-y  - frequency
fbodyacc-meanfreq()-z  - frequency
fbodyaccjerk-mean()-x  - frequency
fbodyaccjerk-mean()-y  - frequency
fbodyaccjerk-mean()-z  - frequency
fbodyaccjerk-std()-x  - frequency
fbodyaccjerk-std()-y  - frequency
fbodyaccjerk-std()-z  - frequency
fbodyaccjerk-meanfreq()-x  - frequency
fbodyaccjerk-meanfreq()-y  - frequency
fbodyaccjerk-meanfreq()-z  - frequency
fbodygyro-mean()-x  - frequency
fbodygyro-mean()-y  - frequency
fbodygyro-mean()-z  - frequency
fbodygyro-std()-x  - frequency
fbodygyro-std()-y  - frequency
fbodygyro-std()-z  - frequency
fbodygyro-meanfreq()-x  - frequency
fbodygyro-meanfreq()-y  - frequency
fbodygyro-meanfreq()-z  - frequency
fbodyaccmag-mean()  - frequency
fbodyaccmag-std()  - frequency
fbodyaccmag-meanfreq()  - frequency
fbodybodyaccjerkmag-mean()  - frequency
fbodybodyaccjerkmag-std()  - frequency
fbodybodyaccjerkmag-meanfreq()  - frequency
fbodybodygyromag-mean()  - frequency
fbodybodygyromag-std()  - frequency
fbodybodygyromag-meanfreq()  - frequency
fbodybodygyrojerkmag-mean()  - frequency
fbodybodygyrojerkmag-std()  - frequency
fbodybodygyrojerkmag-meanfreq()  - frequency
